Welcome to QuickTime Streaming for IT.
My name is George Cook.
I'm a consulting engineer for Apple,
and I work in our education group.
And today, I'm going to introduce a
couple of other speakers.
But before I do,
I just wanted to mention a class
that we recently developed,
podcasting and streaming internet media.
So I did bring the course guide up here.
It's a three-day hands-on class
offered by our customer training group.
And it covers a workflow
for streaming media,
as well as using the podcast server,
as well as a streaming
server for delivery.
If you go through the class and
take the certification test,
you get three credits towards
Apple Certified Systems Administrator
and more information is
available at that URL.
So that's a more detailed version
of what we're going to cover today.
Today we're going to focus
in on some enterprise-level
deployments of streaming.
One is by Apple.
So this is Apple using
our own technology.
And Steev Dinkins is going to
present our webcast studio,
which is a very sophisticated
environment for delivering live
webcasts and also recording those
webcasts for on-demand access.
And then Dave Schroeder,
this will be his third year here
at Worldwide Developer Conference,
and he's going to give us an
update on University of Wisconsin's
Digital Academic Television Network,
which is an innovative project to
bring television to their IP network
at the University of Wisconsin.
So with that,
I'm going to turn this over to Steve,
and he's going to go through
in detail the webcast studio
that Apple uses internally.
Thank you, George.
Hi.
Hi, I'm Stev Dinkins,
media producer/engineer at Apple.
and I'm here to talk to you about the
Webcast Studio System that we custom
built for Apple for sales training.
I've been at Apple computers since
2002 with 20 years worth of music
production and audio engineering
production experience and 15 years
worth of video web computer and
multimedia production experience,
ranging from camera
work to cinematography,
motion graphics, video editing,
DVD authoring, you name it.
I'm in the creative services within sales
training and we range in productions
from high-end video to broadcast,
webcasting of course,
and DVD productions and
print and web publishing.
All in-house in Apple for sales training.
On to the webcast.
So the webcast program was kicked
off in 2002 and initially we were
using a third-party solution for that.
And that company got bought and dissolved
and was no longer supporting that
software and was no longer developing it.
So we started researching.
I should also add that software always
had limitations that hindered us,
such as having presentations that
were just limited to still JPEGs and
we couldn't do any kind of motion or
anything in that slide presenter window.
So the research went into
how to replace this system.
So we went through pretty much
all of the third-party solutions
for web conferencing and net.
Actually, I'm sorry.
We went through actually net
conferencing and webcast meetings.
And all of them were falling
short in some kind of regard.
Either they were too complex or
they were overbuilt or underbuilt.
And they didn't have the
paradigm of broadcast,
which is the closest to
what we do with webcasts.
There was also the high costs
involved with those solutions.
And high costs with setup,
high costs with yearly fees,
monthly fees, or the worst case scenario,
with per webcast, per user,
per minute fees.
And we didn't want to get
locked into those things.
And we figured if we could take that
money and build something in-house and
not be locked to those kind of fees,
we'd be winning.
So we took six months
to develop and research.
And we found that just using
Apple technology as well as
third-party hardware and software,
we could develop a system that
would be suitable for our uses.
And six months later,
we went live earlier this
year with that system.
So hopefully with what
I'm going to show you,
you get some ideas on how you can use it.
And hopefully you get some ideas on how
you can use the technology for your own
purposes or for your clients' purposes.
So agenda, what I'm covering today,
going over the requirements
and objectives that led
to the choices we made,
going over the functionality
of the webcast viewer,
what the audience sees,
as well as the admin app,
what we use to configure
and schedule webcasts.
And then we'll go over
the front-end technology,
which is behind those two applications,
WebObjects and Apple Server technology,
as well as the back-end,
which is all video, audio,
and Apple computer technology,
which you'll see in the studio.
Also be talking about
software integration.
We're using a lot of different software,
Apple and third-party,
working together as a solution.
And finally, the production workflow.
How we're using this on a daily
basis to produce webcasts.
And I'm going to go forward.
So some of the objectives and
requirements that led to this primarily
is to train the entire Apple sales force.
And this is also spilling
into retail soon.
Of course,
this webcast system is a real-time,
QuickTime-based video streaming
internet communication system with chat
functionality going into the studio
for distance learning and training.
So the cost savings,
if you think about we get audiences
from 100 to 500 people per webcast.
Then you think of the
savings in travel time,
travel costs,
not having to rent out conference spaces,
hotels, all of that.
The savings are huge.
Now multiply that by three
to five times a week,
monthly.
Yearly.
And you can see the
enormous cost savings there.
And it's been an integral part
in the program since 2002.
Timeliness.
We don't have to wait very long to
get communications out to people.
We don't have to schedule
months in advance.
We schedule weeks in advance
or maybe a day in advance.
Minimal user, oh,
computer output streamed real-time.
This is a huge improvement
over the old system.
That's what I was alluding to before.
Before we only had JPEG slides,
and now we have real-time
computer output streamed to the
audience for keynote transitions,
animations, builds,
QuickTime movies embedded
inside of QuickTime,
as well as software demos.
Anything that's coming
out of the computer,
we can stream out to the audience.
Minimal user setup requirements,
we want to make sure that
this is an easy experience for
people to log into webcasts.
And so it really fits in with the
same kind of situation that people
are used to logging into websites
and seeing something immediately.
We also need a manageable
production workflow.
In the past 10 years,
I'd say that syncing slides and video,
you'd think it would be easy.
It's not.
It really isn't.
So this system, an objective was,
how do we make this really easy
so it's not painful for us?
We can do a whole lot of other things,
as well as these webcasts.
So we have minimal setup time.
We have reliability and a lot
of flexibility with this system.
And of course,
we're talking about live webcasting,
but the on-demand processing is also key.
So you'll see how we have a
workflow that's really simple
to create on-demand content,
but we can also use the captured standard
HD and DV video to do post-editing.
Maybe we can repurpose this
stuff if that's requested,
as you'll see later.
So I'm going to go over the
functionality here and show you a
screenshot of the webcast viewer.
You can see there's two streams
combined there into one QuickTime movie
and a chat field at the bottom.
And I'll go over this a little
bit more in a couple slides.
And here's a demo of the webcast.
Welcome.
Thank you for joining us
today for the post-NAB update.
Just to underscore that fact,
every major broadcaster throughout
the world produced a production
on Final Cut Studio last year.
And not only that,
but every major movie studio also
released a production that was
based on Final Cut Studio last year.
Now, if I go over to Audio Effects,
In the upper right-hand
corner in the pane,
I'm in my editing pane, and I'll zoom up.
So within audio effects,
we've added some really
neat things within iMovie 6.
As you can see, we've got animations
happening within Keynote.
We've got a product
manager demoing software.
And we're thrilled to have this
functionality and easy to manage.
So I'm going to break
down the viewer here.
It's simple, but it's powerful.
We've got video of the presenter
on the left side there.
It's QuickTime 7H264, 240 by 180 pixels,
approximately 150 kilobits a second.
Over on the right side,
we've got the larger window with
the computer output streaming
in real-time at 640 by 384,
which is a healthy size.
It's really nice.
You can see all the print on there.
People don't have to redo their
slides for this smaller window
because it's pretty healthy.
And that's at 200 kilobits a second.
Now,
the aggregate total of that data rate,
we've been shocked to see that it
actually goes down to about 150
kilobits to 200 kilobits total.
And that's astounding thinking about
the amount of pixels we're pushing there
at 15 frames a second per video stream
and the quality that we're achieving.
We've got title graphics on the
left there for the product line
title or the program title,
as well as the description
of the webcast and a date.
And at the bottom there,
we have a chat field that the audience
can type in questions straight
in real-time to the presenters,
so presenters can tailor
their presentation towards
the audience's needs.
and the requirements are really simple.
You just need a web browser and
QuickTime 7 and that's Mac or PC.
And you need broadband
internet connection.
56K we're not supporting.
Thank God.
Okay, so usage.
It's really easy.
Users just log in to a front portal URL.
All they need is a webcast ID and a
passcode and they get that through
an email invite or on a published
webcast invite on internal web portals.
And there's an optional three
fields in there for their name,
email and location.
That's a really huge
value add for presenters.
They can follow up with people with
questions that they didn't have
time to answer during the webcast
or if they wanted to take a question
offline one-on-one with somebody.
They can do that.
This is on to the webcast admin.
This is the application we use for
scheduling and configuring webcasts.
I'll go over some of the features
really quickly on what that's all about.
So as soon as a webcast
is booked and scheduled,
we can go and create
that webcast with a date,
broadcast ID, passcode, time, title,
presenter information, etc.
We also have a field for
QuickTime URL that can be
a unique URL per webcast,
and we also have dimensions we
can request or define in there.
Because if it's widescreen
or 4 by 3 aspect ratio,
we can accommodate that.
Next is the session info.
We're able to see the number
of users who have logged in.
That's imperative for us to know
that everything's working right.
We see the numbers grow, we're happy.
We can also see who has signed in,
especially if they filled out
those optional three fields.
We also have a transcript
of that incoming chat,
and I'm going to show you
screenshots of what that looks like.
So we've got a screenshot
of the session information.
As you can see,
we've got the name of the session.
The user location and the email address.
And here's a screenshot
of the chat transcript.
You can see the name of the user
location and the chat that they entered.
Now, both of these,
the session and the chat transcript,
we export out to a text file and we give
that out to presenters after the webcast
so they have a record of everything.
On to the front-end architecture,
which is behind those two
applications you just saw.
And it's all built on
Apple server technology.
And that viewer admin is custom-coded
web objects applications,
custom-coded in-house by a guru
mastermind by the name of Russ White.
Thank God for him.
He's a mastermind.
It's incredible what he's done with this.
So two XServes are driving
those two applications,
one for the webcast viewer
and one for the admin app.
And we're also deploying XServe,
XServe RAID,
and XSAN for capturing the HD and
DV video to centralized storage.
And that's been a tremendous lifesaver.
Running fiber channel from
the server room to the studio.
And this is really brief.
So I'm going on to the
back-end architecture,
which I'll go into more detail on this.
So there's a screenshot
of the webcast studio,
modest and powerful.
There's a shot of a webcast in session.
There's another screenshot
there showing the mixer.
And there's from the presenter side.
We got three machines
there for keynote presos.
And then there's a computer on the right
side there for seeing incoming chat.
So there's a diagram of the system.
I definitely needed to put this
in a visual form in order to even
configure or wire this thing up.
It looks deceptively simple to me now.
I don't know about you, but it's complex.
Okay, so on to the video gear,
breaking this down into pieces.
Video gear, audio gear, and computers.
So first, video.
We've got three standard def cameras,
various video sources.
We've got a graphics powerbook,
actually now MacBook.
And that's running CG or
titles into the system.
We also have a DV tape deck for remote
presenters that might be recording
their presentation remotely and
sending out that DV tape to us so we
could feed it into the webcast system.
All those sources are
going to a video switcher,
so we can switch between
any of those sources.
And we have preview monitors so
we can see any of those sources
independently of the program output.
On to the audio gear,
we have several microphones,
computer audio from
the presenter machines,
as well as a phone interface for
remote presenters or interviews.
And as well as an iPod.
We have iPod music or music
playing before the webcast starts.
And it's not just to be pretty,
it's so people know that they've logged
in and something's happening there,
it's successful.
And it gives us a point of reference for
establishing integrity on the stream.
We have headphone
monitor and room speaker,
so we can hear the remote
presenter on the phone.
And on to...
Streaming machines, actually.
That's a bummer.
A slide is missing.
I'm going to refer to the photo here,
because that's what I'm talking about.
So on the right here-- it's almost
chopped off-- there's a chat monitor,
as I said before, where we can see the
incoming chat coming in.
And that's using iChat,
and it's using Jabber Server to relay
all those messages from the webcast
viewer from all the people into the
studio and seeing it right there.
We also have the presenter machines,
MacBook Pros.
And usually,
we just have one keynote prezo
pushed via Apple Remote Desktop to
all those machines.
And we have this exact clicker,
and we advance slides on all
three machines simultaneously.
So we'd have people spread out,
and they can still see the keynote.
We have a VGA switcher
at the bottom there.
So if we wanted to configure it
so we have a presenter machine
and a software demo machine,
we can switch between those or
have different prezos on all
three if they didn't combine them.
advance.
So, where is that VGA switcher going?
It's feeding that computer
signal into an HD scan converter,
converting it into an HD video signal.
and David Koehn.
But you can guess where
it's going from there.
It's going into a streaming machine.
So we have a Power Mac G5 with a
Kona card for HD input and that's
streaming out to Akamai to reflect
outside the firewall to the world.
We also have another Power Mac G5
that's taking the presenter video
off that switcher and it's converting
it to a stream out to Akamai as well.
So there's the two streams,
computer output and the
video of the presenter.
So capture machines.
The question is why do capture when
you have encoded streams that are
already there and you could just go and
trickle those and record them to disk?
Well, in our opinion,
that's not good enough.
We're Apple and we want
to set a standard here.
So we're using compressor on the HD and
DV so we could get better quality there.
It also enables us to do
post-processing and final cut if
we wanted to do editing on that.
You wouldn't be able to do
that with the kind of ease and
quality if you just had H.268.
encoded video QuickTime movies.
So that's all captured to XAN,
which again is beautiful workflow.
On to software integration,
we're using a number of software
applications all working together.
The viewer and the admin,
as I said before, is Apple Web Objects,
custom coded.
Streaming, we're using VeriSoftware
Wirecast and primarily,
well there's a number of reasons.
We're cropping prior to streaming.
DV has the infamous black
bars on the left and right.
We get rid of those.
And the HD signal usually has
a little border around that.
We crop it out,
clean it up and stream it.
KonaCard Aware,
Wirecast can see the KonaCards.
It's a beautiful thing.
And we're able to do source
switching with Wirecast.
So oftentimes,
presenters are messing around with slides
five minutes before we go live and we
don't want the audience to see that.
So we switch out to a title
graphic or switch to black.
Capturing, we're using Final Cut Pro,
of course.
Capturing straight to XSAN,
the HD and DV video.
And for post-production,
we're using Final Cut Pro to
export ref movies and using
Compressor to do the final encode.
So, packaging.
Everybody's probably, well,
some people are probably wondering,
how are we packaging the
two streams together?
And we're using TotallyHips
LiveStage to do that.
So, two streams and a graphic
element combined together for an
embedded webcast viewer for live.
And for on-demand,
we're also using LiveStage for
creating the on-demand version.
So,
the Compressor encoded QuickTime movies,
just tie those together, and it's done.
So, production workflow.
You've seen the behind-the-scenes.
You've seen the technology.
How are we using this to produce
webcasts on a daily basis?
Well, from the start,
it's been planned to be
strategically simple.
So, live,
we just prep the QuickTime movie with
a unique graphic and a unique name.
Get the keynote presos
pushed out to the MacBooks,
lights, camera, decks, computers, iPod.
Get all that ready.
Begin the streams
simultaneously to achieve sync.
And test those streams for sync
integrity and audio-video integrity.
Begin capturing machines and go live.
And the post is even simpler.
So, we use Final Cut to export
out synced HD and DV,
the in and out points.
Export those out as two ref movies.
Throw that into Compressor
and encode to H264.
And then take those movies and
combine them together with LiveStage
and post it to internal or external
websites for on-demand viewing.
In conclusion,
We had a lot of needs that we knew
from the last three and a half years
using a product that kind of worked,
but it really wasn't anything
that was going to wow anybody.
So we took all of the,
and we had a lot of customer or
client complaints from the audience.
Took all of that knowledge and research
and plighted towards creating our own
system in-house with Apple technology
and third-party hardware and
software that was engineered,
tested, deployed.
And right off the bat,
the audience was resounding applause.
Before, we had complaints every single
webcast of slides not coming in,
not updating, not being in sync,
whatever.
That's all gone.
Webcast adoption,
we're at an all-time high for booking
webcasts up to five days a week.
The keynote drop-in
is an awesome feature.
Presenters don't have to dumb down their
slides or they don't have to alter them.
They can just bring in their slide deck,
how they're used to presenting it,
and there's no limitations
on the system for that.
and software demos.
We've had product managers in
demoing everything from iLife
to the pro apps like Shake.
So expectations have been blown away on
this thing and it's been a lifesaver.
We're able to crank these things
out and it doesn't bog us down.
We're able to do a lot more creative
things within the department.
And this technology is just super cool.
Seeing video, audio, server, software,
computers all working
together to achieve this goal.
And I have to mention QuickTime 7
being at the heart of this because
without the efficiency and the
quality of QuickTime 7 H.264,
there's no way we would
have tempted this.
So that's it.
And I'm going to hand it over to Dave.
So if you're blown away with that,
just wait to see what
Dave has in store for you.
Thanks a lot, Steve.
Well, I have to say that Apple's
webcasting stuff is really cool.
University of Wisconsin's
actually done a webcast through
their webcast studio before,
too.
And we had really good results with that.
So I'm Dave Schroeder.
I'm a systems engineer at
the University of Wisconsin.
And today we're going to be
talking about an IP-based video
delivery system that we developed.
And this has been something
that I've talked about here at
WWDC for the last two years.
So this is our third time
presenting this here.
And we started this off as a pilot,
and this turned into a production service
that has been serving the campus for the
last two and a half years and is going
to be really expanding going forward.
So some of you who have
heard me talk before,
some of this stuff is going to
seem like you've heard it before,
and that's because you have.
But for the benefit of those who haven't,
we'll just briefly touch
on some of these things.
So we had been operating a cable
television infrastructure that was using
traditional coaxial cable for years.
And we actually have two,
one that was called the residential
television network that delivered
a full complement of normal
cable channels to our dorms,
housing,
some of our remote housing locations,
but this was all
university-owned housing.
And it's something called the
academic television network.
Which was a network that we
ran on campus that had some
specific university content.
So we had channels that the colleges
and departments and different university
units could actually put on it.
And then we had some
just local cable content.
So we had a selection of cable
television channels available on it too.
And as we were going forward,
we wanted to explore what
options we had for transitioning
this to an IP-based system.
And it turned out that after
everything we went through,
Apple server and software
technologies were a good fit
for delivering this solution.
And one of the big things
that was important to us
was being standards-based.
So a little bit about the
University of Wisconsin.
We're, University of Wisconsin-Madison
is one of 26 UW system schools.
We're the largest,
we're the flagship campus,
we've got a lot of people,
we have a lot of buildings,
and we have a pretty big
central IT component,
but that only represents about a
quarter of the IT staff on campus.
So we're very decentralized
when it comes to IT.
But one thing that we were
centralized on was our network.
And that's one of the things
we leveraged going forward.
So we already have a lot of
Apple technologies that we use,
like XServe, RAID, XServes and whatnot
in mixed environments.
In the center picture there you see some
suns mixed in with some Apple equipment.
And because we already were
using Apple technologies,
we were fortunate to be able to have
some of the decision makers on campus
consider this as a solution too.
So this is what we're
going to talk about today.
I already talked a little bit about ATN.
And it turns out that one of the
hardest things to do to deploy this
system wasn't the technical part.
It was actually getting an agreement
with a content provider to be able to
Provide channels over an IP network.
And that's something that a
lot of people really balk at,
and that's something that
our cable operator was a
little bit skittish about too.
But we used the agreement that we
had with our cable operator where
we're providing this selection of
channels on our old academic network.
That was the network we ran
ourselves as the basis for
putting them on our IP network.
We kind of made the argument
that we were already distributing
these things on a coaxial network.
We just want to change the media
that we're using to distribute them.
And it's kind of interesting
to look at the history of
what brought us to this point.
So those of you who have been in
IT and networking for a while will
kind of appreciate the history here.
And when we started out back in 1980,
and that was before my time
at the university or really
any kind of school at all,
we started out with serial connections to
the UNIVAC 1108 in the academic computing
center on campus and quickly realized
that the requests for connections to this
would fill all the available conduits
in the computer science building.
So we went to an RF based
system that was very similar
to a cable television system.
And it didn't take long for
departments to start asking us if
they could also share that network
for video purposes as well.
And then the network grew and
evolved over time until we
got to where we are today,
which is a 10 gig ethernet backbone.
And that's the basis for what we
call the 21st century network,
which was funded in part by a very
generous donation from John Morgridge,
who's the chairman of
Cisco Systems and also a UW alum.
And the 21st Century Network was
really our answer to one of the
greatest networking challenges we face,
which is how to face exponentially
increasing bandwidth without
exponentially increasing budgets.
And also to manage provisioning a
network to 30 major departments,
30 departmental lands
that go along with them,
and then a whole slew of smaller
departments and units and
remote research stations and
all sorts of different things.
And so these were our solutions.
And the bottom line here
is that we wanted to
Converge everything to IP,
which meant getting
rid of things like IPX,
AppleTalk, which we finally turned off
actually just a few weeks ago.
And...
Also, kind of just gathering together,
reining in all the different
management models people were using
on campus for managing the network,
centralizing those,
but still delegating the ability for
people to administer the network.
And use as many automated
tools as possible.
And one of the big things we did
was we changed the revenue model.
The old model was based on bandwidth,
so we had people running entire buildings
off of half-duplexed 10 megabit Ethernet.
And that was fine because all their
people were doing was checking
email and browsing the web,
and they didn't see any reason
to pay anything more for it.
And we decided that it was an
important thing to make high-speed,
high-performance managed network access
ubiquitous across the entire campus.
So that it wasn't a budget decision
that determined what kind of
bandwidth people had and thus what
kind of capabilities people had
for things like video conferencing.
And some of the fancy newsletters.
We had a couple of people
who were using the Internet,
and they were using the Internet for
a lot of different reasons.
One of the things that we did was we
had a lot of people who were using the
Internet for a lot of different reasons.
And this means we can also afford to
upgrade the network as time goes on,
because this is a cost
that we assessed ongoing.
And one of the other critical things for
the video stuff I'm going to be talking
about today was support for IP multicast.
That essentially allows one host
to deliver something to many hosts
with only the equivalent impact
on the network of one stream.
So as more and more hosts are added,
they just listen in and it's kind
of like a tree branching out.
But there's not a separate
broadcast or an additional load on
the server or whatever the source
is for each additional broadcast.
And for more information,
multicast.internet2.edu
is a good place to start.
And this is a little diagram of
essentially what multicast means.
So A here would be a server
and in a unicast model,
if you have three clients listening,
there are three streams that go out.
And there's two clients
behind that R3 route,
you know, which could be a router or
other network device there.
It has to have two streams going to it or
20 or however many things are behind it.
In a multicast model,
there is only one stream going out on
any given branch to support clients.
And if there are no clients
listening on a particular branch,
then there's nothing there at all.
So that's the difference
between unicast and multicast,
and that was really important for us.
[Transcript missing]
We also are able to reach other
clients other than Mac OS and Windows.
With open source products like VLC,
we can serve clients that
are running on Linux,
Solaris, and anywhere that product runs.
And cost was another important factor.
When we were first rolling this out,
and of course costs have come
down a lot on various products
over the last three years,
but when we were first rolling this out,
some of these individual
hardware encoders were upwards
of $25,000 and even $50,000.
And we were able to get a lot of
these products to run on Linux,
and we were able to get a lot of
these products to run on Windows,
and we were able to get a lot of these
products to run on Mac OS X Server.
And now, today,
we can have multiple streams on
a single server as the computing
horsepower has increased.
And this is even more true, I mean,
I said this when I first
talked about this in '04,
and this is more true today.
The cost of the XSERVs have either
come down or their performance has gone
up and we get more bang for the buck.
And so the software, QuickTime Player,
free, QuickTime Broadcaster, free,
QuickTime Streaming Server included,
an OS X server.
A lot of these QuickTime capabilities
that are just kind of a bonus that
come along for using QuickTime,
like the QuickTime text track, skins,
which allow for things
like custom interfaces,
which we actually don't use right
now because we have a separate
application for playing channels
that I'm going to show you later.
QtKit on the Mac OS X platform
allows us to really easily
write these custom applications.
And because of the
granularity of the system,
because it's not some kind of a
turnkey or dedicated solution,
we can plug different pieces in
and change around how we do things.
And it allows us to
do some of the really,
I think, innovative things that
you're going to see later.
And so what we started with when
we initially deployed this pilot,
and it's kind of interesting because our
production system is actually running
on the same equipment that it has been
since the first time I talked about this.
So we have a head node that's responsible
for the web front end for the service,
which is the primary way customers visit
the service to start watching TV if
they're not using the player application.
This node also serves up the
function of monitoring the
streaming nodes with server monitor,
and it has its own local monitor keyboard
and mouse for local administration.
And then we have a bunch of
XServe cluster nodes that are
actually our streaming nodes.
They run QuickTime Broadcaster
and our services for doing
closed captioning decoding,
closed captioning archival,
and of course the video and
audio streams themselves.
And we have a bunch of support
equipment with each stream because
we actually get the channels via
analog cable from our cable operator,
use tuners to tune, throw that into a
FireWire video converter,
which is we're actually using some of
the Canopus ADVC products to do that.
And then it goes into the
streaming node via FireWire.
The software we're using is
really pretty straightforward.
OS X Server, of course,
QuickTime Broadcaster,
QuickTime Streaming Server.
We use it for some
specialty applications,
but QuickTime Broadcaster has
the ability to send streams to
multicast right out of itself.
So we don't even need to use
streaming server for anything.
We have one broadcaster instance
running on each streaming node,
and it sends it out to a
multicast address that's
valid for the entire campus.
And whether there's one or a
thousand people watching a channel,
it's the same load on the server.
There's just one stream
coming out of the server.
So it's really zero or one,
no matter how many clients are watching.
And we use Apple Remote Desktop,
of course, for administration,
server monitor, and we actually have an
HP OpenView infrastructure that
our Network Operations Center used
for monitoring hosts and
services in our data centers.
And so OpenView's in the mix, too.
And then the client end,
as you already know, of course,
we have QuickTime Player.
We've got some open source
players on other platforms,
or frankly, Mac OS and Windows as well.
We have the ability to play to
any MPEG-4 compliant device.
And we have it in the cloud.
And we haven't actually done that a
lot because we discovered that the
Mac Mini is a really nice set-top box.
And we'll talk about that
a little bit more later.
So what we do is on each streaming node,
they're really just set up as appliances.
They've got all their
stuff hooked up to them.
The tuner's tuned to whatever
channel it's supposed to
be tuned to for that box.
Boots up, logs in as the streaming user,
which is an unprivileged
user on the machine.
It's just a normal non-admin user.
The machines monitor themselves,
obviously, via the Watchdog process.
And they're also monitored
by some external agents.
QuickTime Broadcaster starts
when the thing boots up.
A very simple Apple script does this.
And then our closed captioning, capture,
and database insertion script starts
and is also monitored by Watchdog.
Now, we could do this other ways, but,
you know,
Watchdog was the way to do it back then.
So that's how we're continuing
to do it on the production side.
service.
Some people have asked, you know,
how do you make sure that
QuickTime Broadcaster
always stays running?
And we do it, you know,
really kind of a simple,
straightforward way.
We have an entry in the cron tab
that runs a script every minute.
It simply checks to see
if Broadcaster's there.
and if it's not, respawns it.
And the way it gets respawned is
by the same script that launches it
and tells it to start broadcasting
in the beginning when it boots.
We have found that this is
actually extremely reliable.
And I wanted to get some of this
stuff in the presentation so that
when these go up on the ADC site,
they'll actually be in there so you
can see some of the stuff that we did.
One other thing that we do is after
some of the hardware became powerful
enough to start doing multiple
streams at the resolutions and
data rates we were interested in,
we also wanted to run multiple
instances of QuickTime Broadcaster.
Now QuickTime Broadcaster,
while it's very nice and of course free,
isn't really designed to run multiple
instances on the same machine.
So we have, I wouldn't even call this a
hack because it's so simple,
but what we do is we just duplicate
the QuickTime Broadcaster application
and in each successive instance,
so in the case of having two,
we open up the application
package and then edit this
Info.plist as you see right there.
Basically all this is doing is it's
changing the bundle name of the
application which also determines
what its preferences file name is.
This makes Broadcaster have,
each instance of Broadcaster has its
own app preference file so they don't
trample each other and continually
overwrite each other when you launch
the other one or make changes by
launching a separate instance of the app.
So now two instances of Broadcaster can
run and they're completely independent
of one another preference wise and they
can take inputs from different sources.
Now it might be worth mentioning
here that as Steve talked
about in his presentation,
they use Wirecast.
Verisoftware's Wirecast does multiple
inputs and multiple streams by default,
but for various reasons we
couldn't use their product for
this deployment and we're actually,
I'm actually going to talk about
that a little bit later too.
One of the things that we did,
not at first, was added a player
application to the mix.
So some of these things will
make a little bit more sense
when I show them to you later.
But this is a standalone player.
It doesn't play things through QuickTime.
It's its own application.
It was written by Brian Deeth,
who's actually also here too,
so you can talk to him about
this later if you want.
He's waving in the front row there.
Who's with our school of journalism.
And I think this was really an
example of the kind of flexibility
that going with QuickTime offered.
Because someone who really wasn't
affiliated with this project at all
decided that they wanted to write an app
that would interface with our service
and play our content and even do some
more special stuff that we weren't doing.
And the granularity of our
solution allowed him to do that.
And of course we were more than
happy to cooperate with him.
But some of the things that it added,
which was a complaint
that a lot of people had,
and this is a
Mac OS X application right now.
There's possibilities of it
presenting itself on other platforms,
but right now it's just
a Mac OS X application.
It provides kind of a TV-like remote
control interface to our service.
So that when you open it up,
it looks like any other kind of
TV tuner application would that
you might get for a computer.
It's got a little remote control.
It's got a channel list.
But it dynamically changes
the way you're playing.
It dynamically updates this
list from a central database.
So if a channel gets added or a
live broadcast starts and someone
already has the player running,
the channel is going to be dynamically
added to the list of channels
that are available to the player.
And the player checks periodically
with the database to see if
there's any new channels.
It supports the Apple remote and
it also has the ability to respond
to queries from external devices.
One example is AMX Netlink.
AMX Netlink is an AV control
system that we use in a lot of
our classrooms at the university.
And some of you are
probably familiar with this.
And the Netlink has the
ability to send out kind of
arbitrary commands via telnet,
for example, to another device at a
particular IP address.
So these things can listen.
And when someone walks into a classroom,
they can walk up to one of these
Netlink devices and press the
TV button and then press CNS.
And then on the big screen
in front of the classroom,
CNN comes up.
And other than the brief quick
time buffering that happens,
it doesn't appear to be anything
different than ordinary TV to
either the person who's changing the
channels or the person watching it.
One of the other things that we realized
we could do is we wanted to add closed
captioning for accessibility reasons.
And we thought, well gee,
as long as we're collecting
all this closed captioning
stuff and decoding it anyway,
why not take it all and
insert it into a database?
So again, in cooperation with Brian,
we started inserting all the closed
captioning text into a database.
And then we thought, gee,
that was a good idea.
Seems like it would be nice to actually
have the video or some kind of context
from the video along with the text.
So we have thumbnails,
still thumbnails from every minute for
all the channels that are also inserted
into the database as a binary object.
And the way we do that is
actually pretty interesting.
On each of these streaming nodes,
they don't have video cards or anything,
but they all come together.
And so we kind of think they've
got their dummy local display.
QuickTime Broadcaster's up on it.
Well, when QuickTime Broadcaster's
broadcasting,
it shows the preview right there.
So with some open source tools,
we take a screenshot of the screen,
then we crop it down to the
exact place where the image was.
And then a script runs.
And of course, all this is in one kind
of script that runs.
And then a script runs that
inserts it into the database.
So we don't think that we would
have been able to really do this
with any other kind of solution,
especially a turnkey solution.
If we just decided,
let's just put thumbnails in a database.
The product would either
support it or not.
But here we have the choice to do this.
And one brief thing there,
QuickTime Broadcaster has the
broadcasting balloon in the preview
window while it's broadcasting.
Well, those are just TIFF images
inside the application package.
So we just remove those
in our deployment.
So that while it's broadcasting,
the broadcasting balloon isn't
there and therefore also doesn't
show up in our thumbnails.
And then we developed a web page.
And we have an interface for
actually searching and interacting
with the closed captioning data.
And after we discovered that archiving
text and still images was a good idea,
of course,
we decided that archiving video
would even be a better idea.
So we have some video and
we're starting to do more.
And we use QuickTime Broadcaster's
integrated recording
functionality for this.
Video is retrieved using some
specially crafted URLs that use Smile.
And just before we came out to WWDC,
we started kind of an initial partnership
with the UW General Library System to
make 7 terabytes of video,
which is the most recent video.
And it's yet to be determined
which channels it's going to
be and everything like that,
via, you know, kind of under the
auspices of the library.
So...
The first year we talked about this, we,
actually I'm sorry,
the second year we talked about this,
we talked about what was new.
And this stuff that was
new bears mentioning again.
And QuickTime 7, of course, was new.
H.264, really a good codec.
But what we found out pretty quickly
was that we didn't quite have the
horsepower to do H.264 encoding yet for
standard definition TV live in real time.
The MPEG-4 codec was actually
still giving us a little bit
better quality and was a little bit
easier on our encoding machines.
So that's,
we anticipate that that's probably
going to change in the future,
but right now we're still on MPEG-4.
But the bottom line of all this is
that standard definition quality
TV is possible in about a megabit.
And that was really great for us.
And improvements in QuickTime Broadcaster
1.5 and QuickTime 7,
and this was the same.
At the last WWDC, but I just want to make
sure everyone knows this.
QuickTime Broadcaster 1.5
with QuickTime 7 is now,
it's now possible to do full frame
DV and full frame from various input
devices like the Miglia Alchemy TV card.
Previously,
it would discard half of the frames and
you'd get about half the resolution.
But now you can do full frame video,
640x480 or 720x480 with these cards.
What's newer?
Obviously, CPU power has increased.
So here's some examples of some of the
results that we've been able to get
at various bit rates and resolutions.
Now, when you look at the
Core Duo listings down there,
I think that those deserve
a little bit of explanation.
The reason why those are there,
and I haven't had an opportunity to
test anything on the Quad Core Xeon
Mac Pros and XServes yet,
but I have a feeling that
they're going to be quite nice.
These are the ones that we've
been able to get at various
bit rates and resolutions.
These are low-end machines.
I mean, something,
we can take a Mac Mini,
something that's basically, you know,
a $600 or $700 machine and do
almost with it what we could do
with high-end server hardware,
you know, not that long ago.
So I think that the future is very
bright for the Intel platform,
too, when it comes to encoding.
Now, even today, on a Core Duo Mac Mini,
you can encode almost,
we're almost there.
where
Full-frame H.264 using Wirecast.
And I think that as the Mac Mini matures
and as some of Intel's newer and higher
speed processor offerings make their
way into Apple's products over time,
we're going to be there with
even products like the Mac Mini.
And one of the reasons we use Wirecast
in our testing on the Mac Mini is
because Wirecast leverages the GPU.
Well, none of our X-Serve encoding
nodes have GPUs in them.
That's why we didn't
use Wirecast on them.
And Wirecast can eat just, you know,
even more performance out of a
machine by leveraging the GPU.
So even the relatively
low-end Intel integrated
graphics in the Mac Mini,
it can do a really great
job with H.264 encoding.
And if you don't have to do 640 by 480,
if you want to do a little bit less or
if you don't need 30 frames per second,
I mean, these things,
are great little encoding boxes.
So what's newest?
Transcoding.
And this is kind of the result of,
we've been able to do this,
this is a result of I think our
good decision-making process
to go with open standards,
to go with QuickTime in the first place.
We take one encoding format,
which in this case is
MPEG-2 Transport Stream,
and convert it to
something else on the fly.
So our cable operator delivers
MPEG-2 transport stream
video directly to us via IP.
and it's never been analog before.
It comes from their digital source.
It gets put into their network,
packetized and whatnot,
sent to us and we convert it to MPEG-4.
Now, if we didn't have these licensing
encumbrances with MPEG-2,
We might just take the video content
as it is and have no physical
infrastructure to support video at all.
That's not the case.
And we decided to not try to fly in
the face of MPEG LA or be a test case
to see what would happen if we used
something like VLC as our player.
And then we also had some thoughts
about do we really want to,
you know,
do we want to make a judgment to
Use something like MPEG-2 that
has to be licensed going forward,
even if we pay for it.
and David Koehn,
the founder of QuickTime,
are also here to talk about
the future of QuickTime.
What was key for us is that
when we do this transcoding,
everything on the client end,
how this appears to our
users and customers,
is all the same.
The flexibility that QuickTime gave us
in the first place is what allows us
to plug in new pieces going forward.
And so here's kind of a little
chart of how exactly the video
is coming to us from Charter.
And the reason why this is a little
bit more complicated than it would
seem to be is because Charter really
wants to protect its multicast core.
They don't want to expose that
to any kind of outside entity.
So what we're doing is kind of acting
as an intermediary and putting these
channels on our own multicast core.
This isn't part of our
production service yet,
but this is just something that's
going to be tested for a while
to see exactly how well it works.
And actually, how we transcode is
with VideoLand Client.
It's an open source media player,
and it can transcode between
any formats it understands.
It runs on OS X.
It runs on OS X because
OS X has a Unix foundation.
This application would have
never made its way to Mac OS 9.
So we have Mac OS X's Unix
heritage to thank for applications
like this being available.
And it can really... And it can really
transcode anything it can understand
to any other format it can understand.
And we found that we can do about one,
two to four megabit stream
per modern processor core.
So that means things like the G5,
things like the Intel Core architecture.
And like I said before,
the decision to use QuickTime gave
us this flexibility.
Does this mean that we're
abandoning QuickTime?
Not at all.
We are embracing QuickTime even more
on the client end because we realize,
because that's how, you know, A,
that's how people will play this video,
and B, it's treated us this well so far,
and we don't have to do
anything to any of our clients.
We don't have to make people make
changes in order to watch new channels
because QuickTime can understand the
content that we're delivering to them.
It's compatible with our
existing support model,
all of our existing things
we've built for Dayton.
And again, here's a couple of, here's,
a lot of people ask me about this.
Well, how do you transcode?
How exactly,
what do you put in at the command line?
Here's a couple of things.
These are obviously not
intended to be written down,
but they'll be in the presentation
when you can download it.
One thing I would mention is if you look
at VLC for doing these sorts of things,
you can use the streaming wizard,
which is in the newer build.
That's kind of the,
the old builds of VLC as an example.
And it, it shows the actual commands it's
using to generate the stream,
do recording and that sort of thing.
Now, I would also mention that
If QuickTime supports MPEG-2
transport stream itself in the future,
we may look into switching
back to QuickTime.
In fact, we'd like to use QuickTime to
do the playback and/or
transcoding of this content.
So here's a typical encoding node that's
using Broadcaster and actually getting
it from the external audio source.
You can see the tuner that
we have and a couple of other
pieces of equipment in between.
The closed captioning decoder is hooked
up to the serial port on the XServe,
and that's how the video gets in,
or that's how the closed
captioning gets into the machine,
and there's a little agent there
that sits there listening to it.
This is a typical encoding node if
it's using an internal tuner card.
This solution wasn't available when
we originally deployed the pilot,
but we actually have a couple of
channels that are using this now.
And that's an all internal solution,
so you can have two tuner cards and
do two channels in one U of space.
And a transcoding node is
nothing more than a box with
some computing horsepower.
So that's also an all-internal solution.
And so what does Dayton look like?
Well, here's our pilot deployment that
turned into a production service.
It's a bunch of XServe cluster nodes,
some tuners, and some support equipment,
which is sandwiched in between
each XServe because the tuners
are only like three inches deep,
so there's some dead space
in there that we can use.
And we would have liked to have
everything done in just kind of one box,
which we could do today,
but this is what we had to do to build
this solution when we originally did,
and it ended up working out very well.
And it's a testament to the quality of
this product that after we've set it up,
and even though we've added
things to it from time to time,
we haven't really had to do anything
in the way of maintenance or upkeep,
short of just ordinary best
practices like OS patching.
And so what does Dayton look like?
Well,
it's a bunch of XServe clusters that
turned into a production service.
It's a bunch of XServe clusters that
started out as a production service.
[Transcript missing]
And here's our closed
captioning search page.
This is something that we're going
to be rolling out with the library.
This hasn't become a public service
to just the broad campus yet.
An example of some search
results that have come back from
a search someone's done on CNN.
And the key for Dayton,
anywhere the network is, Dayton is too.
Whether it's an office setting or a
lounge or conference room or classroom.
Big screen TV up on a wall somewhere,
a recreational facility.
Here's an example where they've
got five 42-inch plasmas hooked
up to Mac Minis as set-out boxes.
So the Mac Mini has a set-top box.
It's really perfect.
Inexpensive, small, quiet,
can be run like an appliance.
It's got an array of connectivity
that's perfect for this application.
Supports a remote control.
Dayton Player also supports a remote.
When this thing is configured in
kind of an appliance-type way,
it's really incredible
that it just works.
And as a bonus,
it's also a full computer.
and it's not much more expensive than
some of the set tops we've looked at too,
by the way.
Mac Mini is a video over IP encoder.
Again, a lot of the same pluses,
and it's got still the
same good connectivity that
makes it good as a set-top,
except some of them reversed inputs.
And we kind of centrally manage and
update these things so the people who
have these out at their sites don't
actually have to do anything with them.
Everything is centrally managed.
And so now I just want to show
you real quick how what Dayton is,
what it looks like.
And if the demo gods are all
this is designed to work on the
university multicast network.
So we're doing some special stuff
to make it work out here at all.
And we're having some problems
with the network earlier,
but we'll just see if this works.
So I'm going to click my secret little
button here on one of these channels.
It's going to spawn QuickTime and I'll...
Normally on campus this would just play.
Next call comes from Palm Bay, Florida.
Go ahead.
Good morning.
So, that's what it looks like.
I guess we don't have QuickTime Pro.
Here's an example of the same thing
with closed captioning in effect.
In my opinion,
the cultures of Jews and the cultures
of Christians and other religions
have learned to live with each other.
There's no doubt if you go to
anywhere in the Arabian world,
Persian or Ottoman... Now this is
actually an interface that doesn't
have any of the controls along with it,
but that's just another example
of how we can present it.
And if I were to go full screen,
it would just have the captioning
at the bottom as you see blown
up with the video on top.
So that's what it looks like.
And I'll show you our search
interface here real quick too.
So let's say I want to search a couple
of channels for... This is always
something that will get some hits.
And boom, we get our responses from CNN,
which apparently has
only mentioned it once.
and some more results there.
Now if I click on this,
now you see our thumbnails.
This is the nearest minute thumbnail and
I also chose a one-minute aggregation
which just will say give me a one-minute
chunk around the search result.
And if I choose one of these and say,
well, I'll just click on the video.
Now if I go down here,
now we start the video off about
like 10 seconds before the search
result and end it 10 seconds after.
So there you can see it's going along and
this is video that's been archived and,
you know, really we can archive as
much as we have space for.
So you can see the potential for
this for even research applications
and the library really sees this as,
you know, why should we not archive
just like periodicals,
newspapers, journals, books.
This is another tool that's a
legitimate research tool that
people at the university can use.
So that's our search interface
and we can obviously write
any kind of interface we want.
If I want to say,
maybe we collected a show
metadata and say I want to watch
Law and Order from last week
or I want to actually maybe see,
you know, here's another example.
Um...
Let's see here, 10 a.m.
to 11 a.m.
last Sunday.
With no search term and
one minute aggregation,
that looks good.
[Transcript missing]
You know, an event that was going on
at a particular time and
So this has been a really
useful tool for us.
And now the player-- let's see here.
I'm going to have to put
it in unicast mode 2.
And if everything's working,
we'll get it there.
OK.
Now, here's a standalone application.
Here's how it does its closed captioning
and we actually have some preferences
in here that let you set the background
transparency of the captioning pane and
the color and the size of it and how
many lines it is and things like that.
So it gives you a little bit
more flexibility than even
normal closed captioning does.
And QuickTime full screen
without QuickTime Pro.
So that's state and player.
And since I'm going to be
running short on time here,
I just want to touch on
some of the things that we,
where we said we were going
when I was here last year.
This was our bullet point
list that we had last year.
And everything with a green checkmark
by it is now either done or in progress.
And the two things that don't have
checkboxes are two things that
I'm very happy about this year.
Move to next generation
XServe for encoding platform.
Well, I have to say that I was
really pleasantly surprised
by the new XServe offering.
And we're playing around with
the possibility to be able to do
things like invite TV channels
into an iChat conference.
And the stuff that I saw with iChat
and Leopard makes me think that we'll
be able to do some of those things.
Will it have any purpose ultimately?
I don't know.
But since we've really
only had two of those,
we're going to have to
do some of those things.
We've had two people working
on this project over the last
three years with about maybe 5
to 10% of their time or less,
or sometimes 0% for weeks at a time.
I'd say that this has been
a pretty good investment.
We did everything that you
see here for under $50,000.
Oh, and since we didn't have a
one more thing at the keynote,
I will give you a one more thing.
And that is that in
cooperation with Brian,
Dayton Player is going
to be released for free.
It's going to also be open source.
And I really have to say that
Brian's done a lot of work on this.
Last year, someone actually had a feature
request in the audience,
and he had it done by the time
I was done giving the presentation.
So we'll release the source, too.
It plays any content QuickTime can play.
Full-screen playback
without QuickTime Pro.
Works with the Apple Remote.
It obtains its channel information
right now from a MySQL database,
but it can be a local preference file,
too.
We have another tool that will be
released called Date Administrator,
which is just going to be a
nice little graphical front-end.
And we're going to post it at this URL.
We were hoping to actually just
have everything ready today,
but we didn't have time.
So right now,
we're just going to say by next Monday,
we're going to have it up there.
It could be sooner,
so feel free to check.
Our version of the application
is available for download now,
but we're going to have the general
version of the application up there,
too.
And there's some of our
contact information.
I'm in the middle.
Dave Devereaux-Weber is actually
the project manager for Dayton,
and he's been the one who's been doing
a lot of the political wrangling and
meeting with the purchasing agents
and charter and all this kind of
stuff to get things squared away.
And Brian, like I said, is here.
So that's the website, dayton.wisc.edu.
You can also go to tv.wisc.edu
if that's easier to remember.